javascript is used make it interactive
gives instruction to a computer 
the computer follows our instruction
javascript is casesensitive 

wt is variable?
it is like a container where we can save a value and then use it later
var,let,const are the keywords use to name a variable in javascript
remember the var is not used much because it does not follows the scope in javascript

javascript is an camelcase language as 
where the first word is not captialized

wt are boolean's in javascript?
they are another type of value, there are only 2 boolean values true or false

the use of if-statements in javascript?
lets us write multiple groups of code
and then decide which code to run

strategy for javascript
1.figure out what steps we need
2.convert these steps into code


what is a function?
it lets us to reuse the code

scope
limits where a variable exists

return statement?
lets us get a value out of a function

parameter=puts a value into a function
A parameter works in the same way as the variable

the syantax to create an parameter
we just type the parameter name between the brackets
rules for parameter names:
can't use special words example:function
can't start with a number
can't use special characters except:$
A function can have more than one parameter

what is method?
object with an function is called as an method in javascript
eg console.log('hii') // is an method 

what is object in javascript?
an object in javascript is been created using the{}
to create multiple parameters and assign a value to each of them
it is called as property value pair as the property and the value is seperated by the :
if we axcess an property which is not defined it will result to undefined

objects let's us group multiple values together
lets's use multiple objects together

to name a variable we use const variablename={} // that's how we can create an varaiable


what is json?
json = javascript object notation 
it is very similar to javascript
all string property in json should be given with string ""
no single '' are allowed 
similar to javascript but with very less features

why do we use json?
to send data between two computers which uses two different programing language
to store data

what is built in json object?
convert javascript object to json

how to convert?
JSON.stringify() between the brackets we can give the javascript object that we can use to convert to the json 

we use JSON.stringify(to convert js to json)
we use JSON.parse(to convert json to js)

next built-in objects in javascript?
localstorage-saves value more permanently
variables are temporary
if we refresh/close the page all the variables are deleted
localstorage only excepts string.
to convert to string in 
localstorage.setItem()

what is dom ?
stands for document object 

the document.body.innerHTML='hello'; d=changes the entire text that is displayed on the body to hello on the home page
dom represents /models the webpage 

documents as methods
innerHTML-used to modify the contents inside the body element 
docuemnet.querSelector()-lets us get any element from the page and put it inside JavaScript  



if an html is inside an javascript html will become an object 


method=function saved inside an object